Add more logs to noderunning (#1972)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/run-arbitrum-node/06-troubleshooting.mdx

You can check logs by different log types: info, warn, and error.

<Tabs
  className="tabgroup-with-label log-taggroup"
  groupId="logs"
  defaultValue="info"
  values={[
    { label: 'Logs type:', value: 'label' },
    { label: 'Info', value: 'info' },
    { label: 'Warn', value: 'warn' },
    { label: 'Error', value: 'error' },
  ]}
>
  <TabItem className="unclickable-element" value="label"></TabItem>
  <TabItem value="info">
    <table className="small-table" id="troubleshooting-table-info">
      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <th style={{ minWidth: 180 + 'px' }}>Scenario</th>
          <th>Solution</th>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see <code>Unindex transactions</code>.
          </td>
          <td>
            This is expected behavior. You'll see this when your node removes old{' '}
            <code>txlookup</code> indices. This is emitted from the base Geth node, so you'd see the
            same output from a mainnet Geth node.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see <code>Head state missing, repairing</code>.
          </td>
          <td>

>             This is usually because your node shut down ungracefully. In most cases it will recover

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            This is usually because your node shuts down ungracefully. In most cases, it will recover
```

          <td>
            Nitro (and Geth) can consume a lot of memory depending on request load. It's possible
            that your machine may run out of memory when receiving tons of requests.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            Your Arbitrum node can’t connect to your L1 node on <code>localhost:8545</code>
          </td>
          <td>
            This is often because of a Docker port configuration issue. See
            https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43884981/unable-to-connect-localhost-in-docker.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You specified your snapshot file path via the <code>--init.url</code> parameter, but the
            snapshot file isn't found.
          </td>
          <td>
            This is usually because the snapshot file isn't mounted to your Docker container. Mount
            it and change the file path to your Docker container’s mount point.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You get <code>403</code> errors from the feed URL.
          </td>
          <td>

>             This often happens when Cloudflare attempts to block botnets and other malicious actors,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            This often happens when Cloudflare attempts to block botnets and other malicious actors
```

>             but accidentally ends up blocking node runners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            but accidentally blocks node runners.
```

          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see <code>latest assertion not yet in our node</code>
          </td>
          <td>
            This usually because your node hasn’t synced to the latest state, it’s a normal
            behavior.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see <code>"Post "xxx_url": context deadline exceeded"</code>
          </td>
          <td>

>             Please check your parent chain endpoint, this is because there are something going wrong

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Please check your parent chain endpoint because there is something going wrong
```

>             on that endpoint, you can check it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            on that endpoint; you can check it.
```

          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see <code>Resuming state snapshot generation</code>
          </td>
          <td>

>             This is a normal behavior while the node catching up to tip of chain, once a node has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            This is a normal behavior while the node is catching up to the tip of the chain; once a node has 
```

>             been fully synced, "Resuming state snapshot generation" shouldn't be logged unless it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            been fully synced, "Resuming state snapshot generation" shouldn't be logged unless it 
```

            falls behind again.
          </td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="warn">
    <table className="small-table" id="troubleshooting-table-warn">
      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <th style={{ minWidth: 180 + 'px' }}>Scenario</th>
          <th>Solution</th>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see{' '}
            <code>
              `error reading inbox` err="sequencer batches out of order; after batch A got batch B”
            </code>
          </td>
          <td>
            This is because you get 2 discontinuous batches, this might because your parent chain

>             endpoint issues, you can change to another endpoint and set nitro `

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            endpoint issues. You can change to another endpoint and set nitro `
```

            --init.reorg-to-batch A`
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see{' '}
            <code>
              `error reading inbox` err="failed to get previous message for pos `x`: leveldb: not
              found”
            </code>
          </td>
          <td>
            This is because your node db got crashed and lost some message, you can try set
            `--init.reorg-to-message-batch x-1`
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see{' '}
            <code>`Failed to load snapshot` err="head doesn't match snapshot: have a, want b”</code>
          </td>
          <td>

>             This usually because corrupted database caused by an ungraceful shutdown, try re-start

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            This is  usually because an ungraceful shutdown causes a corrupted database; try restarting 
```

>             the node without prune flag and after your node back to normal, then graceful shutdown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             the node without a prune flag, and after your node goes back to normal, then graceful shutdown 
```

            it and restart to prune it.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see{' '}
            <code>

>               failed to get blobs: expected at least 6 blobs for slot `[slot_number]` but only got 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              failed to get blobs: expected at least six blobs for slot `[slot_number]` but only got 0
```

          </td>
          <td>Arbitrum Nitro doesn’t need P2P mode, so you can ignore this log.</td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="error">
    <table className="small-table" id="troubleshooting-table-warn">
      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <th style={{ minWidth: 180 + 'px' }}>Scenario</th>
          <th>Solution</th>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see <code>no contract code at given address</code>
          </td>
          <td>
            Your parent chain node might not sync to the latest state, please wait after it finishes
            syncing.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see{' '}
            <code>
              `staker: error checking latest staked` err="latest assertion of x: globalstate not in
              chain: count a hash b expected c, sendroot d expected f"
            </code>
          </td>
          <td>
            The node will check the state against the latest confirmed assertion staked on chain
            once it caught up, if doesn’t not match, it will logs this error. Usually this is

>             because db corruption, so you might need to re-sync the blockchain, use a snapshot might

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            because of db corruption, so you might need to re-sync the blockchain; using a snapshot might 
```

            help: https://snapshot-explorer.arbitrum.io/
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see{' '}
            <code>
              disabling L1 bound as batch posting message is close to the maximum delay blockNumber
            </code>
            or <code>batch is within reorg resistance margin from layer 1 minimum block or timestamp bounds</code>
          </td>
          <td>
            It indicates that there has been an issue with batch posting on the network. This could
            occur if your batch poster didn't post a batch for an extended period. Common reasons
            include the node being shut down inadvertently or the batch poster running out of funds,
            leading to no new blocks being produced or posted by the batch poster. <br />

>             To resolve this, If re-org doesn’t matter you can just start the batch poster with `--node.batch-poster.reorg-resistance-margin=0`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            To resolve this, If re-org doesn’t matter, you can just start the batch poster with `--node.batch-poster.reorg-resistance-margin=0`,
```

            If it does you'd want to modify the time bounds on the sequencer inbox to allow the sequencer
            to post a batch containing the transactions with the old timestamp
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see{' '}
            <code>
              on-chain WASM module root did not match with any of the allowed WASM module roots
            </code>
          </td>
          <td>

>             Usually because you are running on an old version node, try upgrade your node. Also you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Usually, because you are running on an old node version, try to upgrade your node. Also, you 
```

You can check logs by different log types: info, warn, and error.

<Tabs
  className="tabgroup-with-label log-taggroup"
  groupId="logs"
  defaultValue="info"
  values={[
    { label: 'Logs type:', value: 'label' },
    { label: 'Info', value: 'info' },
    { label: 'Warn', value: 'warn' },
    { label: 'Error', value: 'error' },
  ]}
>
  <TabItem className="unclickable-element" value="label"></TabItem>
  <TabItem value="info">
    <table className="small-table" id="troubleshooting-table-info">
      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <th style={{ minWidth: 180 + 'px' }}>Scenario</th>
          <th>Solution</th>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see <code>Unindex transactions</code>.
          </td>
          <td>
            This is expected behavior. You'll see this when your node removes old{' '}
            <code>txlookup</code> indices. This is emitted from the base Geth node, so you'd see the
            same output from a mainnet Geth node.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see <code>Head state missing, repairing</code>.
          </td>
          <td>

>             This is usually because your node shuts down ungracefully. In most cases, it will
>             recover in few minutes, but if it not, you may have to re-sync your node. Remember to
>             shut down your node gracefully with the following command:{' '}
>             <code>docker stop —time=300 $(docker ps -aq)</code>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            This is usually because your node shuts down ungracefully. In most cases, it will
            recover in a few minutes, but if it not, you may have to re-sync your node. Remember to
            shut down your node gracefully with the following command:{' '}
            <code>docker stop —time=300 $(docker ps -aq)</code>.
```

            node has been fully synced, "Resuming state snapshot generation" shouldn't be logged
            unless it falls behind again.
          </td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="warn">
    <table className="small-table" id="troubleshooting-table-warn">
      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <th style={{ minWidth: 180 + 'px' }}>Scenario</th>
          <th>Solution</th>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see{' '}
            <code>
              `error reading inbox` err="sequencer batches out of order; after batch A got batch B”
            </code>
          </td>
          <td>
            This is because you get two discontinuous batches; this might be because of your parent
            chain endpoint issues. You can change to another endpoint and set nitro `
            --init.reorg-to-batch A`
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see{' '}
            <code>
              `error reading inbox` err="failed to get previous message for pos `x`: leveldb: not
              found”
            </code>
          </td>
          <td>

>             This is because your node db got crashed and lost some message, you can try set
>             `--init.reorg-to-message-batch x-1`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            This is because your node db crashed and lost some messages. You can try to set
            `--init.reorg-to-message-batch x-1`
```

          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see{' '}
            <code>`Failed to load snapshot` err="head doesn't match snapshot: have a, want b”</code>
          </td>
          <td>

>             This is usually because an ungraceful shutdown causes a corrupted database; try
>             restarting the node without a prune flag, and after your node goes back to normal, then
>             graceful shutdown it and restart to prune it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            This is usually because an ungraceful shutdown caused a corrupted database; try
            restarting the node without a prune flag, and after your node goes back to normal, then
            graceful shut it down and restart to prune it.
```

          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see{' '}
            <code>
              failed to get blobs: expected at least six blobs for slot `[slot_number]` but only got
              0
            </code>
          </td>
          <td>

>             This often happens when you connect to a beacon chain endpoint while the blob you are
>             querying is expired. To resolve this error, connect to a beacon endpoint which supports

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            This often happens when you connect to a beacon chain endpoint while the blob you are
            querying is expired. To resolve this error, connect to a beacon endpoint that supports
```

            </a>
            ).
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see <code>P2P server will be useless, neither dialing nor listening</code>
          </td>
          <td>Arbitrum Nitro doesn’t need P2P mode, so you can ignore this log.</td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="error">
    <table className="small-table" id="troubleshooting-table-warn">
      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <th style={{ minWidth: 180 + 'px' }}>Scenario</th>
          <th>Solution</th>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see <code>no contract code at given address</code>
          </td>
          <td>
            Your parent chain node might not sync to the latest state, please wait after it finishes
            syncing.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr className="scenario">
          <td>
            You see{' '}
            <code>
              `staker: error checking latest staked` err="latest assertion of x: globalstate not in
              chain: count a hash b expected c, sendroot d expected f"
            </code>
          </td>
          <td>

>             Once it catches up, the node will check the state against the latest confirmed assertion
>             staked on chain; if it doesn’t match, it will log this error. Usually, this is because
>             of db corruption, so you might need to re-sync the blockchain; using a snapshot might
>             help: https://snapshot-explorer.arbitrum.io/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            Once it catches up, the node will check the state against the latest confirmed assertion
            staked onchain; if it doesn’t match, it will log this error. Usually, this is because
            of db corruption, so you might need to re-sync the blockchain; using a snapshot might
            help: https://snapshot-explorer.arbitrum.io/
```
